(rhythmic music)
While meeting with biographer Sidney Kirkpatrick
at the Cayce headquarters in Virginia Beach,
we learned of another book he recently wrote
titled Hitler's Holy Relics.
This was an aspect of World War II
that I had never been exposed to, and reads like
an Indiana Jones adventure tale.
It's not fiction however.
Sidney explains in detail the obsessive mission
of Adolf Hitler to obtain the famed Spear of Destiny
which is thought to be the spear
that was driven into the side of Jesus
during the crucifixion.
Also called the Spear of Longinus,
it has held a spellbinding power over military leaders
throughout the ages.
So many people are intrigued with this
individual in modern history that seems to show
many complex sides, the most of which
he is certainly not respected for.
Nonetheless, there was something in Hitler
that was obsessed with these holy relics.
And you wrote a beautiful book on it,
and I thought we would first start out
by asking you why you chose this subject of all subjects.
Hitler's holy relics.
I was very interested in a particular relic.
It's called the Spear of Longinus, or the Spear of Destiny.
It was the spearhead or lance
that was alleged to have been used
at the crucifixion, spear in the side of Christ.
And it has a long and detailed,
wonderful history
as it's passed on from,
you know, one ruler to the next, to the next.
I was particularly interested in this relic
in the larger scheme of things,
how it was venerated differently at different periods
in time, and you could sort of get a sense of
how Christianity changed and evolved
because at one time, the Spear of Longinus
was as sacred as the Holy Grail.
And of course, the Holy Grail at various points
eclipsed the Spear of Longinus.
Anyway, I was very interested in writing
the history of this spear, only to discover
that it's got a magnificent, marvelous,
mind-boggling, actually, modern history
that Adolf Hitler had become obsessed
with this relic as part of the collection
of Holy Roman Empire relics.
And that not only Hitler was interested in it, and got it,
but General Patton was also interested in it.
So you have an interesting--
Yeah, when you look at their personalities,
that would make sense.
Well, it's just an interesting true historical drama
which speaks to a much greater, longer story.
You know, I don't know that this is
the point at which I should be asking this
or if you have any thoughts on it,
but Patton with his connection
to the ancient Cathars I believe it was,
and with Hitler and this story that you're going to
reveal here, did either of these men have a belief
in past lives that they personally
may have related to?
Absolutely, absolutely.
And that's what makes this pair so interesting
because they were looking at it from different sides.
The legends that grew up about this spear
come almost as a talisman.
I mean, there's a legend that goes with it
that you can trace, you know, right up through history
that whoever holds this spear
holds the destiny of mankind.
The Longinus legend is actually suggested
in the Bible, but Eastern Orthodox tradition
tells a much richer story.
According to Christian tradition,
Longinus was a legionnaire,
very well respected,
Pilate appreciated his services,
he was very good in battle, he got cataracts
or had difficulty with his vision
and was no longer
good on the battlefield, he was no longer good
in service, so he was reassigned to Mount Calvary
where, you know the crucifixion took place.
And it was sort of easy duty.
And when he came up, you know,
as legend has it, there were three
souls being crucified, you have Jesus, and you have
two thieves, and the thieves legs were broken.
When Longinus came to Jesus, he speared him
in his right side, and according to tradition,
ancient tradition, blood dripped down
the side of the spear, and into Longinus's eyes,
and he was miraculously cured of cataracts.
His eyesight returned, and he had a vision
of Jesus as the Messiah,
and of the future.
And future Christianity, and one could argue
as I think Patton did.
You know, Patton actually wrote on Longinus,
wrote a poem about Longinus.
One could argue that the first Christian
was a Roman centurion
because Jesus didn't become the Messiah
until the crucifixion, until he crossed.
And Longinus was right there, and so one could argue
that he was the first Christian,
and began Christianity because after, you know,
according to this tradition,
Longinus could no longer serve Pilate
and no longer serve Rome, and he left
Jerusalem with his spear, carrying his spear.
And because he was a Roman citizen and not a Jew,
he was free to travel Roman roads.
And so, he takes the spear with him and he walks
to Antioch, eventually gets to Rome.
And you know, much of his movements,
of course, are all legendary, so one can't say for certain.
But, you know, according to tradition,
he went around proclaiming Jesus as the Messiah
and, you know, in his very act
he fulfilled certain Old Testament
prophesy.
And can you talk about that prophesy,
that's my next question.
What was that prophesy?
Well, that the bones of Jesus would not be broken
or that he would,
and that a gentile would declare in the Messiah.
Okay, so that had been fulfilled then.
By Longinus's act.
And so, this spear was passed on.
It was first, you know, Longinus first had it,
and then it was passed on through legend
in Cappadocia, eventually becoming
the property of the Theban Legion in Egypt.
And the Theban Legion was really the first
Christian legion, Coptic Christian legion,
and they were sent off to Gaul
by the Roman emperor.
And in Gaul, they were to fight
whom they discovered to be another Christian tribe.
And they weren't about to kill fellow Christians
and martyred themselves
rather than kill further Christians.
The whole
hymn Onward, Christian Soldiers
comes out of that.
This spear became sort of a holy talisman,
and it was passed from, you know,
one army ruler to the next.
It was not property of the church,
never became property of the church,
but Constantine was said to have carried it
at the Two Councils of Nicaea.
You know, the second council being
where the actual Bible as we know it today
was assembled.
Frederick Barbarossa passed on through
the Holy Roman emperors.
And it was widely believed, that it was actually used
in the coronation ceremony to become
a Holy Roman Emperor.
One needed certain accouterments, and one needed
the Spear of Destiny,
a crown eventually,
and paraphernalia was collected and passed on.
When Napoleon was, you know, rampaging
through Europe, Napoleon wanted the spear,
and he wanted the collection of Holy Roman relics
because he was, he wanted to be the world monarch
and he needed those signs, those symbols
of world domination that, you know,
in order to be truly, call himself the world monarch,
he needed these symbols with it.
They were hidden from him.
They were secreted out of Germany
and they were sent to Vienna.
Jump ahead.
Young Adolf Hitler, young failed art student
in Austria.
As legend has it, he wanted to get out of the rain.
People don't realize how impoverished Adolf was
at various points in his early life.
As the story is told as a failed art student,
he was living at times on park benches.
He came in to the royal treasury, the Hofburg
in Austria, in Vienna
to get out of the rain, supposedly walking
through the halls, and he saw
the crown jewels on display.
And allegedly,
he had an epiphany, a moment in which
he saw the future of the world,
and he saw, looking at this spear.
And years later,
as he rose in office,
he tried to arrange for a loan
of the crown jewels to Germany.
And the Austrian government would not
permit a loan
because they knew the Germans weren't gonna
give them back.
So, at the opening of World War II
when actually the invasion of Austria,
the very first art and artifacts
that the Nazis seized
was the Spear of Longinus and the crown jewels
of the Holy Roman emperor.
So he was on a mission.
Let's go back for just a moment to that epiphany
when he was walking through the Habsburg palace
and first became exposed to this.
And I'd ask you about the reincarnation piece
a little bit ago.
Did his epiphany have anything to do with himself,
did he see himself in this broader picture
somewhere somehow?
Well, I'm sure you could read that into it.
But there no hard evidence,
no hard documentation.
But even in Mein Kampf,
he references that moment
seeing those artifacts
and how important it was to him and to the future.
So, one could easily interpret
more meaning in that, and it depends on,
you know, what tradition you're coming out of,
how you're looking at it.
Well true, he who holds the spear
holds the destiny of mankind.
Okay, so he was highly motivated in this sense,
on some psychological slash spiritual level.
Yeah.
Okay, so now we go to modern history,
and let's talk about the journey from there
and what happened
when he made that his highest priority to gain access
to these, well, confiscate them, steal them, basically.
Well, they were taken from Austria,
and they were put on display in Nuremberg
at a church in Nuremberg,
and many thousands,
during the festivals,
many thousands of people came
and saw the artifacts.
Eventually as the World War began
and bombing missions started,
a special hidden vault was made for them.
And they dropped from sight.
And where they were really placed
was literally underneath the castle.
In Nuremberg?
In Nuremberg, in a special hidden chamber.
And a very high-tech chamber actually.
You know, great expense was taken
to construct this vault for these artifacts
because Hitler wanted them preserved.
This was Germany's--
It was to be his legacy after this, right?
I mean, he viewed, you know,
the thousand year reich.
And these were artifacts that were
that were the thousand,
symbols of the thousand year reich.
And so, where did
Lieutenant Walter Horn come in to all of this?
Where does that part of the story come in?
Just, maybe you can give us a linear reach
from where you just were
that he had them on display, and also had
created this vault for their safekeeping in Nuremberg.
And, then the plot starts thickening as time goes on,
as everybody else, and Patton included,
are after the same thing.
So, just continue.
Well, it was a research odyssey on my part.
I was very interested in, I knew
ahead of time that Patton, you know,
under General Eisenhower had managed to
reclaim these artifacts, and the spear in particular,
but I didn't know how and I didn't know
who had obtained them.
And I went in search, you know, first in
College Park, Maryland, in the National Archives
where all our military records were.
And I went searching and searching,
and I came up with a identification number
of a particular soldier,
and it was even more difficult to figure out
who that soldier was.
But eventually, I was able to document a soldier.
And one, I think it surprised me
that if, under Patton's command,
a team had been sent in to recover
these artifacts, why so little was known,
and why so little was published.
There's newsreel footage of the artifacts
being returned to Austria, amongst great fanfare.
Special trains, special plane was brought in.
But who was the team?
How did they actually get it back?
So that story--
I was dying to find out,
which is how I came upon Walter Horn.
And, Walter Horn, you know,
what a fascinating story, what a fascinating life odyssey.
It's one of those things where
there truth is really much stranger than fiction.
But Walter Horn had been a young art historian,
a young art student getting his doctorate.
He got his doctorate just as Hitler came to power
in 1933.
He was getting his doctorate in--
In Heidelberg in Berlin.
And his specialty was Holy Roman Empire.
And his specialty, these artifacts and the art
of that era.
And he was quite concerned, he was quite concerned
about the Nazis, he was concerned about his future.
His doctoral professor, Erwin Panofsky,
he was a very famous art historian,
eventually emigrated to the United States,
was telling his students, you know,
get the hell out of Germany.
You know, the horror is about to descend.
Walter had very mixed feelings.
A, he didn't think he was gonna get a job
outside of Germany
in his particular specialty.
And B, he was having an affair
with a young Jewish woman
who at the time happened to be married to a Nazi.
And she thought by virtue of her marriage,
she was gonna be protected.
So, as much as Walter wanted to leave,
and hated the Nazis.
He didn't wanna leave her.
He was dragging his feet.
And one thing led to another, and eventually
he escaped to Italy, and from Italy,
the SS started chasing him, and he got out of Italy
to Havana, Cuba, and from Havana, he got to Miami,
and Miami, he got to New York, at which point
his former doctoral professor had emigrated
and eventually got a job at Berkeley.
And at Berkeley he essentially married
the first girl who walked into his classroom.
And got his citizenship, and was protected.
Well, that was smart.
Did he speak English prior to arriving here?
He was very learned, he spoke five languages,
very articulate, and,
you know, eventually found himself back in the war.
And the point I chose
to open this book is in Belgium.
And Walter Horn is a young lieutenant,
and he's with Patton's army, and they're about to
march into Germany, cross the Rhine River
and go into Germany.
But Walter's got very mixed feelings
about what's going on.
A, he's on the SS hit list,
and so he knows if he's captured, he will be killed.
He also, you know, sees the bombers going overhead
at this point, the German air force
has essentially been wiped out
and so we have these armadas, these, you know,
giant numbers, hundreds sometimes,
seven, 800 planes at a time,
going over, doing, you know, bombing Germany.
And he's worried,
you know, his family's still in Heidelberg.
He doesn't know almost any day.
I mean, he's been working as an interpreter,
he's been interrogating captured soldiers,
he doesn't know, you know, when his classmates
are gonna show up, when his brother is going to show up.
So he's got very mixed feelings,
and while all of that's going on, Patton has discovered
that Himmler has a secret vault in Nuremberg.
And it's in a, believed, it's supposed
that this is where the crown jewels are,
and so Patton wants them back.
Patton wants the coillection, and he's searching
through his, you know, metaphoric Rolodex of soldiers
serving under him for A, someone who speaks German,
and two, someone who knows something
about ancient history
and modern Germany
and here all of a sudden, Walt, you have this ideal,
perfect candidate.
It's like you couldn't, Steven Spielberg
couldn't come up with a more perfect candidate
to send on a mission to recover these artifacts.
And it's really only because of who Walter is,
the fact that he was such a scholar and studied
in Germany, that he's able to actually ultimately
return them.
Because it's who he knew as a student,
the, you know, soldier, the classmates who, unlike him,
stayed behind versus he had fled.
But in order to
succeed in his mission, he has to revist
much of his own past, and much of his family's past.
But, that early Nazi era,
and it's a really incredible story.
So, I mean, obviously he ultimately
succeeded in this.
Can you give us a couple of hints about
some of the obstacles or adventures along the way
prior to his procuring it?
Well, I think for him, the most important revelation,
and it was really frightening,
was that the very team of
civilians, when I say civilians, I mean German nationals
that the occupation forces had hired
to help assist,
assist the allied forces.
Many of them were deeply entrenched Nazis.
Many of them were, there's a group called The Werewolves
who were,
as the Nazi regime
was falling apart,
Hitler, Himmler especially,
could see the writing on the wall, so they planted
civilian, you know, they planted ardent Nazis.
As werewolves.
In civilian garb to help
the allied occupation.
What they really were were spies.
So I think that the most terrifying revelation
is, you know, to Horn's point of view was that
plans were really made for a fourth reich.
And to pull that fourth reich off,
they wanted to keep hold of, you know,
these relics, the Spear of Destiny.
So what happened then
once they were accurate in having located it
and they were able to procure the spear,
free the spear.
What happened then kind of politically
and within the military
with Patton, Eisenhower was involved as well?
What happened from there?
Well, it was a,
it became a public relations issue
because exciting, as heroic
a story as, you know, American ingenuity
reclaiming these holy relics,
when you truly examine the story,
examine how they were found and who helped,
you had several.
You had a German Jewish ex-patriot
on the back of a motorcycle,
and you had Walter Horn
who had fled Nazi Germany.
You had a number of
spies, per se, former Nazis.
So, you had this cabal which was very difficult to sell
to the American public, and so they kept it all quiet.
Plus, I think the whole subject
of a fourth reich
was not a subject that
the American government wanted to talk about
in any great length.
Even like the Nuremberg trials, for example.
That subject is hardly touched upon,
just as the whole spiritual
philosophy.
So much of
the esoteric aspects of Nazism
were not covered in the Nuremberg trials.
And I think that was a conscious decision
not to go that direction.
Into the occult.
Right.
Okay.
So, the spear's relationship to the fourth reich
and the importance of having this spear
for the establishment of the fourth reich,
you're saying this is really terrifying to him,
and this is something that certainly the American military,
why did they, in hindsight, why did they
not want to release that information?
Well, a combination of reasons.
I think Eisenhower especially,
he wanted to A, put the past behind them,
they also didn't wanna hold
all Germans responsible for the war.
And I think they made certain decisions
about what the story was to be.
Who would be prosecuted for war crimes
and how and why.
There was also a certain embarrassment factor
in Europe because the very people
they had that the allied army
had Germans,
the very Germans that the allied army hired
to protect these things actually turned out to be Nazis.
And so, that was an embarrassing factor,
they didn't wanna go there.
The real issue was keeping the spear,
and there was a lot of that, there was a lot of it.
Patton wanted it, and didn't see any reason
why they should give it up.
In fact, he was making a pretty compelling argument
not to give it up.
That if this was truly, this was more than
just an artifact, this was a symbol
of world monarchy, and are you gonna give it back
to the Austrians or the Germans?
What was his rationale?
You could almost consider it an article of war,
a symbol of war.
So what was his rationale as to why
he should have kept it?
Because besides his, we know, his personality
and that he would have wanted it?
Yeah, and he wanted it,
but according to war reparations,
art, you know, just like the art that was looted
from The Louvre gets returned to The Louvre.
This was looted
from Austria and should be returned to Austria.
But he was trying to circumvent that.
He must have had some rationale.
Yes, he was, and you know,
if he didn't die suddenly,
the United States might actually well have kept it.
There's all kinds of conspiracy theories going on
that we did keep it.
I don't buy into them.
There's even one conspiracy theory that Walter Horn
and the GI who was sent to recover it
actually brought it back with him to California.
I don't buy it, but there was one afternoon I know
from Walter's friends
in Point Richmond, California,
right outside of San Francisco
that somebody was actually digging in Walter's yard
looking for this spear that he believed
Walter had hidden there.
Didn't it end up back in Austria?
Yes, and it's in Austria, and it's on display today.
And furthermore--
But there's an argument that that's not the real spear.
Well, I was going to ask you about that
because, as I was reading in your book,
I think, didn't you say they were maybe three, four
different versions of this?
Yes, and I mean some are patently not the spear,
but we know Himmler made copies.
Made copies of the entire collection of holy relics.
Studies have been done on this spear
that's now on display in Austria.
The forensics, that's what I was going to
ask you about, and that was 2003,
so recent history.
Yeah, and you know, which compelling arguments
that that spear is the one
that Hitler took from Austria.
That it may not go right back to the crucifixion
and probably didn't.
However, that was the spear that had been venerated
for five or 600 years
prior to Napoleon going after it, and prior
to Hitler actually going after and getting it.
So, whether it's the real spear or not,
we're talking about, still, the fulfillment
in carrying forward over prophesy.
Yes.
And it's become symbolic.
So, as you see it today,
as it rests in Vienna, is it in Vienna?
Mmhm.
As it rests in Vienna,
what, whether it's this conspiracy world or not,
what does this represent, this sure existence
of this particular artifact now.
It's a very good question because,
it's a big debate.
Does it belong in a church?
Does it belong in a church collection?
Does it belong to the state?
Is it a work of art?
Or is it a religious icon?
It depends how you're looking at it.
So to answer that question, it really depends
how you're looking at it.
General Patton looked at it one way,
Himmler and Hitler looked at it another.
Walter Horn was coming at it as an art historian,
but also as a German.
And, you know, he recognized its significance
because, you know, its significance is really based
on what you decide you're gonna put on that.
I dunno, do you believe
that it belongs in a museum
or do you believe it ought to
belong in the hands of a world emperor?
Yeah, well, I mean,
if I were voting, I'd probably put it in a museum. (laughs)
So, what are some, for you,
in going through this journey, and especially
with some of the background.
You're steeped in a lot of different histories,
including a lot of the histories of what came through
Edgar Cayce as you're the biographer of Cayce and such.
Are there any other thoughts about what this kind of
artifact and prophesy means to you personally.
After you were done with this study.
One of the things Edgar Cayce often talked about
was how objects, the history of an object
is actually contained within the object
and if you know how to read the energy
around a particular object, you will know its history.
And actually, there were psychics,
Peter Hurkos for example, the Dutch psychic
had that power to hold onto something and read it.
Yes, psychometry.
Did anyone do that with the Spear of Destiny.
Oh, yes.
Oh please, do tell.
Well, I mean, perhaps one of the most interesting
figure in its history.
I mean, we know the great emperors from, you know,
Constantine to Frederick Barbarossa--
Charlemagne in there on it?
Yep, Charlemagne.
Is, Anne Catherine Emmerich who was a German nun.
And like Hildegard von Bingen, she would
fall into an ecstasy.
She actually had stigmata, you know,
where you develop...
Anne Catherine Emmerich, when she fell into ecstasy
didn't create music like Hildegard did,
what she was able to do was hold an object
and describe what, you know, the visions she saw
when she was in ecstasy like that.
And it's actually...
Many trips were made to her nunnery
to give her objects to hold.
And royalty, you know,
Spanish royalty would come all the way
to Germany to let her hold something.
And there was a long period where they were testing
medieval artifacts.
Are these the real thing, because of course,
we know relics at various points were produced on demand.
And so she was given the Spear of Destiny to hold.
And it's very very well documented,
but she went into a reverie, and an ecstasy
and described the crucifixion
in minute detail.
Nothing that would contradict gospel,
but minute detail,
almost from the point of view of Longinus.
What he saw, who was there, what Jesus looked like,
the color of his eyes, his hair,
and it's actually her work
that Mel Gibson used as the basis
for the movie Passion of Christ.
And, so as Catherine Emmerich
was holding this spear,
she developed stigmata again,
and you know, a wound opened on her chest,
and she began, you know, to bleed.
So, it's a, this spear is wrapped up
with so much, so many interesting, fascinating aspects
that it's very difficult to deny that there isn't
something going on.
With what's going on, I couldn't tell you,
but there's certainly something going on.
Does that document still exist
of her reading of the object.
Yes, absolutely, yes.
You can find it, it's been published
and her reveries have been published.
Two volume set.
Tell me again.
Anne Catherine Emmerich.
Right.
Okay.
Very interesting one.
I'm so glad we got to that piece.
That's where the story starts really thickening,
and for the rest of the story, I think people
will just have to pick up a copy of the book
otherwise we'll be sitting here for the next six hours
and we both have flights to catch.
There is a wonderful twist and turn.
Oh, tell me.
Because a lot of people ask,
they believe the book almost to be fictional
because I'd been able to write it with such specificity.
We talked about that off camera, yes.
I was able to do that because
I had an amazing trunk of documents and
there was a point where Caroline Kennedy.
Yes, I wanted to know about that.
Yeah, the Jacqueline Kennedy connection.
Because Walter Horn came back from the war,
created a great family,
and eventually became
the head of the Berkeley art history department.
And in one of the lectures,
which was attended by Caroline Kennedy, that had,
he talked about his World War II adventures
which she was very excited about,
and you know, very interesting, compelling story.
She came home and talked to her mother Jackie Kennedy
about what an exciting character
this Walter Horn was.
And she was in the publishing business
at that time.
Yes, she was an editor of Doubleday.
And so she contracted,
you know, to get a Walter Horn book.
And they conducted several, I think it's ultimately
almost a thousand pages of interviews.
Interesting.
And then, Walter died, she died,
project went south, and it went into a trunk
and I was very fortunate to have access to it.
Meant to be.
Well, congratulations on that.
It's a wonderful work.
Yeah, thank you.
So, until next time,
thank you again for taking the time with us.
This fascinating account of the mystical undertones
of World War II can be delved into
by picking up a copy of Hitler's Holy Relics
at Amazon or other major booksellers.
To learn more of this subject but from a different angle,
you might also enjoy my interview with Jim Marrs
on the continuation of a Nazi agenda
into modern day politics.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.